# T1

## Intro
- __requirements.txt__ - will have packages list and their versions in the environment used.
- __setup.py__:
    If you search for _[Python Pypi](https://pypi.org/)_, there are lots of packages you can search here say - seaborn.  
    It will redirect to package set-up and installation details: [https://pypi.org/project/seaborn/](https://pypi.org/project/seaborn/). You can install it using `pip install seaborn`, this package also has __setup.py file__.   

    [What is setup.py in Python?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-setup-py-in-python/)

    In Python, setup.py is a module used to build and distribute Python packages. It typically contains information about the package, such as its name, version, and dependencies, as well as instructions for building and installing the package. This information is used by the pip tool, which is a package manager for Python that allows users to install and manage Python packages from the command line. By running the setup.py file with the pip tool, you can build and distribute your Python package so that others can use it.

    This `setup.py` will be responsible for creating my ML application as a package. You can install it or use it or even deploy it in PyPi.

##    Create setup.py file

> from setuptools import setup, find_packages

- `find_packages` will find out all packages in the environment you created. 
- `setup` in this function we give details about the application/package. So each time a new version comes, we can give details through it.
- `packages=find_packages()` will get all the packages.
- `install_requires` - you can give names of all packages you need for your project.

Now go to the root folder and create a folder: __src__ and add a file `__init__.py`.
- When the __setup.py__ is run, `find_packages()` will check in how many folders you have `__init__.py`. So it will directly consider __src__ as a package and then tries to build it. And once it starts building, you can import it wherever and whenever you want, for that you have to put it in PyPi.
- In our case, we want it to get builds as a package.
- Entire project development will happen inside this folder - `src`.
- For scenarios where there are many packages we need and we cannot write it down. We try to create a function - `get_requirements('requirements.txt')`  
- You can create a requirements.txt file using this command. Once all required packages are installed, generate the requirements.txt file by running:

    ```
    pip freeze > requirements.txt
    ```
    This command captures all installed dependencies and their versions in the file.

- Now we can directly install __setup.py__ or when we are trying to install using __requirements.txt__ at that point of time, the __setup.py__ must also run to build the packages. To do this we add __-e .__ at end of __requirements.txt__ to automatically trigger __setup.py__.

- It should be triggered only while installing and not when we are running the code. So we have to make sure that `-e .` is removed from requirements when we are running the code.

- Now if you want this to be build in a new location you can do this using:
> pip install -r requirements.txt

- __-r__ (or --requirement): This flag signifies that you are providing a requirements file.

- You might also get a new folder named __mlproject.egg-info__ which indicates environment is being created. With .txt files such as requires, sources, etc.
- In the __requires.txt__ - you can see that `-e .` has been removed. In __sources.txt__ you can see `src/__init__.py`. 

> setup.py is the traditional method for defining package metadata and dependencies. It uses setuptools or distutils to specify how the package should be built and installed. The file typically includes information like the package name, version, author, dependencies, etc.

To install a package directly in the jupyter notebook cell, use:

```
%pip install xgboost
```

Observe I have used `%pip` instead of `!pip`. `!pip` causes issue while installing the code. 



#### Best Practices for Managing requirements.txt
- Regularly Update Dependencies: Periodically update the file by running pip freeze > requirements.txt after adding new packages.
- Pin Package Versions: Specify exact versions to avoid compatibility issues (e.g., numpy==1.23.5 instead of numpy).
- Use a Separate Dev Requirements File: Maintain a dev-requirements.txt for development dependencies like testing tools.
- Use Virtual Environments: Always create and use a virtual environment to manage dependencies efficiently.

## Read:
1. [How to Create Requirements.txt File in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-create-requirements-txt-file-in-python/)
