# T6
## Tutorial 6-End To End ML Project-Model Training And Model Evaluating Component

In this tutorial, we will go with __model_training__. Here we will train different models and we see what accuracy we are getting.

We will start with importing the necessary modules and classes.

Now as usual for every component we need to create a config file like we created for Data Ingestion and Data transofmration.
In config file we give the details such as path or any other input we want to give.

We will create another function `evaluate_model()` in `utils.py`.

Instead of RMSE we can also give another metric such R2_score (test) value also.

Now we can also give a condtion telling if best model's R2_score < 0.6, then no best model found and in such a way set-up a baseline threshold value.

```
if best_model_test_r2_score < 0.6:
    raise CustomException("No best model found")
```

----- 16:04
Now we can the pickle file `preprocessor.pkl`, we can use the file for transformation or any other thing we basically require. If we want it for any new data which is coming up.

Now we will go to `data_ingestion.py` and import the `model_trainer.py` class and functions.

```
from src.components.model_trainer import ModelTrainerConfig
from src.components.model_trainer import ModelTrainer
```

We can ignore the 3rd parameter in the function: `initiate_model_trainer` in `model_trainer.py`.  As its not needed in the `model_trainer.py` and the pickle file was already created.

Importing module `pprint` such that the dictionary with model reports can be printed on screen to be more legible and beautiful.

```
pprint.pp(modeltrainer.initiate_model_trainer(train_array=train_arr, test_array=test_arr))
```

And after running in command prompt:

```
(myenv) D:\Github\mlproject>python -m src.components.data_ingestion
```

We can see the `model.pkl` file also in the artifact folder.

Next tutorials we can see how to deploy this model.
